# 30 Days of Maps 2025

The [Urban Data working group](https://urban-data-science-eaamo.github.io) took part in the [#30DayMapChallenge](https://30daymapchallenge.com) last November. The campaign, famous among GIS enthusiasts in social media, proposes that participants post one map a day for each day in the month of November. Daily themes are broad and varied, fostering engagement with fundamentals of cartography, popular datasets, and novel mapping techniques.

We worked together to build an atlas of classic, animated, and interactive maps. Our maps covered typical urban data science themes, such as accessibility and gentrification, but also broadened our scope to other spatial relationships: media markets, the natural world, dogs, and much more.

Through our mapping process, we considered the limitations and challenges of representing spatial data. Many of us discussed how using a single data source at times felt naive or misleading: merging datasets was the most natural way to represent the intrinsic co-existence of geolocated data points. For example, Atmika Pai created an interactive map of running clubs in NYC, which was juxtaposed with OpenStreetMap data on running tracks and public restrooms to help contextualize the availability of amenities serving each of the clubs. Laura Greenstreet uses the Natural Earth dataset to track urban agglomerations and man-made transport infrastructure (highways, railways) alongside data on invasive species reports in New York State—she poses, however, that while a reader may easily draw correlations from juxtaposed map layers, causal effects are very nuanced: the higher levels of invasive species reports near human activity could be caused by over-reporting relative to other rural areas. And Sylvia Imanirakiza overlaid the electric grid of Uganda with data on the adoption of electric stoves, showing that energy policies depend on infrastructural advances. Using alternative and well-curated sources of data was key to many mappers. Sidhika Balachandar, for example, visualized urbanization in the United States with night lights from sattelite imagery. Matt Franchi, who mapped global media outlet mentions, used a multilingual dataset of 257 country names expressed in 186 different languages each to ensure his analysis was not centered around English-speaking media. Other datasets, curated and analyzed, included water pollution levels in Mexico and a selection of numbered streets in Manhattan.

Beyond data, a few of us also questioned cartographic traditions, mostly finding that conveying uncertainty or bivariate relationships can be tricky. Zhixuan Qi, playing on the task of mapping “polygons”, visualized the fuzziness in crowdsourced neighborhood naming to show that some areas in New York City have high entropy of names, questioning any map with clearly defined boundaries for say the West Village or the Upper East Side. Thinking even more about common geographic units used in New York City maps, Jennah Gosciak visualized the number of other administrative geographies (ZIP codes, Census Tracts, etc) that each NYC Neighborhood Tabulation Area and each NYC Community District intersects. In the accessibility challenge, Gabriel Agostini moved away from common maps visualizing access to a single amenity type and plotted the relative relationship between food and transportation access to New York with a simple question: are you closer to the subway (train) than to a Subway (fast food restaurant)? Making these maps allowed us to rethink the tools we use in conjunction with the problems we solve, potentially highlighting areas where visualization might offer insight but also be confusing or nuanced.

Finally, with such a diverse group, we naturally used many tools and methods to complete the challenge. Beyond our multiple static maps, quite a few of our submissions were interactive and allowed the user to play or examine different aspects of a map. Elijah Appelson used physics-based models to simulate the spread of rice grains and then convert the results into a topography map of a fictional land. And Anna Logan took on the analog map challenged and delivered a beautiful hand-painted postcard of Ann Arbor, Michigan.

You can view these and all of our other maps on the gallery below. Click on any map to read an extended description by the author.
